# Summary
You will implement a maze generator in Python that takes a configuration file, generates
a maze, possibly perfect (with a single path between entrance and exit), and writes it to a
file using a hexadecimal wall representation. You will also provide a visual representation
of the maze and organize your code so that the generation logic can be reused later.

# Usage
Your program must be run with the following command:
python3 a_maze_ing.py config.txt
• a_maze_ing.py is your main program file. You must use this name.
• config.txt is the only argument. It is a plain text file that defines the maze
generation options. You can use a different filename.
Your program must handle all errors gracefully: invalid configuration, file not found, bad
syntax, impossible maze parameters, etc. It must never crash unexpectedly, and must
always provide a clear error message to the user.
IV.3 Configuration file format
The configuration file must contain one ‘KEY=VALUE‘ pair per line.
Lines starting with # are comments and must be ignored.
The following keys are mandatory:
Key Description Example
WIDTH=20
HEIGHT=15
ENTRY=0,0
EXIT=19,14
OUTPUT_FILE=maze.txt
PERFECT=True
seed=78

# Maze Requirements
• The maze must be randomly generated, but reproducibility via a seed is required.
• Each cell of the maze has between 0 and 4 walls, at each cardinal point (North, Est, South, West).
• The maze must be valid, meaning:
◦ Entry and exit exist and are different, inside the maze bounds.
◦ The structure ensures full connectivity and no isolated cells (except the ’42’ pattern, see below).
◦ As entry and exist are specific cells, there must be walls at the external borders.
◦ Your generated data must be coherent:
each neighbouring cell must have the same wall if any.
E.g., it is forbidden to have a first cell with a wall on the east side,
and the second cell behind that wall without a wall on the west side.

• When visually represented (see below), the maze must contain a visible “42” drawn
by several fully closed cells.

• If the PERFECT flag is activated, the maze must contain exactly one path between the entry and the exit

# Output File Format
The maze must be written in the output file using one hexadecimal digit per cell, where each digit encodes which walls are closed:
Bit: Direction
0: (LSB) North
1: East
2: South
3: West


• A wall being closed sets the bit to 1, open means 0.
• Cells are stored row by row, one row per line.
• After an empty line, the following 3 elements are inserted in the output file on 3 lines:
◦ the entry coordinates, the exit coordinates, and the shortest valid path from entry to exit, using the four letters N , E , S , W .
• All lines end with a \n .

# Code reusability requirements
You must implement the maze generation as a unique class (e.g., ‘MazeGenerator‘) inside
a standalone module that can be imported in a future project.
You must provide a short documentation describing how to:
• Instantiate and use your generator, with at least a basic example.
• Pass custom parameters (e.g., size, seed).
• Access the generated structure, and access at least a solution.
The maze generator module grants access to the maze structure, but it is not necessarily the same format as the output file.
This entire reusable module (code and documentation) must be available in a single file suitable for a later installation by pip.
This package must be called mazegen-* and the file must be located at the root of your git repository.
Both .tar.gz and .whl extensions are allowed, as generated by the standard build of a Python package.
Example of a full filename: mazegen-1.0.0-py3-none-any.whl .
You must provide in you Git repository all needed elements to build the package. This
will be asked during the evaluation: in a virtualenv or equivalent, install the needed tools and build your package again from your sources.
